In this video, let us learn about two pointers
technique.
The two pointer technique is a useful pattern to solve
problems involving sorted arrays or linked list.
So how can we identify two pointers pattern?
The problems mostly deal with sorted arrays or linked
list and ask us to find pairs or triplet or sub array
with a given target or remove duplicates from it.
See examples for such problems. Given a sorted array. Find a
pair with the target sum
remove duplicates from the sorted array. Given a sorted array,
find the triplets in the array which gives the sum of zero.
If we analyse all the problems, we can easily observe
the two pointers pattern
Here
All the problems are dealing with sorted arrays
and ask us to find the pair or triplet with
the target or remove duplicate from the sorted array
We can solve these kind of problems easily using two
pointers approach
So in the next video we will learn the sample problems to understand two pointers pattern.